Mr President, your excellencies, ladies and gentlemen,
At the time of its foundation, the United Nations was a beacon of promise.
#In the aftermath of the Second World War, this building symbolised the end of aggression.
For many decades the UN has helped to deliver stability and security in much of the world.
#It has provided a place for nations to work together on shared challenges.
And it has promoted the principles of sovereignty and self-determination even through the Cold War and its aftermath.
#But today those principles, that have defined our lives since the dark days of the 1940s, are fracturing.
For the first time in the history of this assembly we are meeting during a large-scale war of aggression in Europe.
And authoritarian states are undermining stability and security around the world.
Geopolitics is entering a new era – one that requires those who believe in the founding principles of the United Nations to stand up and be counted.
# In the United Kingdom we are entering a new era too.
I join you here just two days after Her Late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II was laid to rest.
We deeply mourn her passing and we pay tribute to her service.
She was the rock on which modern Britain was built.
And she symbolised the post-war values on which this organisation was founded.
#Our constitutional monarchy, underpinned by a democratic society, has delivered stability and progress.
#Her Late Majesty transcended difference and healed division. We saw this in her visits to post-apartheid South Africa and the Republic of Ireland.
When she addressed this General Assembly 65 years ago she warned that it was vital not only to have strong ideals but also to have the political will to deliver on them.
Now we must show that will.
We must fight to defend those ideals.
And we must deliver on them for all our people.
And as we say farewell to our Late Queen, the UK opens a new chapter – a new Carolean age – under His Majesty King Charles III.
We want this era to be one of hope and progress…
One in which we defend the values of individual liberty, self-determination and equality before the law…
One in which we ensure that freedom and democracy prevail for all people…
And one in which we deliver on the commitments that Her Late Majesty the Queen made here 65 years ago.
This is about what we do in the United Kingdom and what we do as member states of the UN.
So today I will set out what steps we are taking at home in the UK and our proposed blueprint for the new era we are now in – the new partnerships and new instruments we need to collectively adopt.
Our commitment to hope and progress must begin at home – in the lives of each and every citizen that we serve.
Our strength as a nation comes from the strong foundations of freedom and democracy.
Democracy gives people the right to choose their own path. And it evolves to reflect the aspirations of citizens.
It unleashes enterprise, ideas, and opportunity. And it protects the freedoms that are at the very core of our humanity.
By contrast, autocracies sow the seeds of their own demise by suppressing their citizens.
They are fundamentally rigid and unable to adapt. Any short-term gains are eroded in the long term because these societies stifle the aspiration and creativity which are vital to long-term growth.
A country where Artificial Intelligence acts as judge and jury, where there are no human rights and no fundamental freedoms, is not the kind of place anyone truly wants to live.
It is not the kind of world we want to build.